### 4. Tiling Larger Matrices 

It is possible that Darknet will emit requests for GEMM with matrices that are larger than our ACC can support (exceed the scratchpad). This will need multiple passes through the ACC processing a portion (tile) of the intput matrices creating a partial output.  This process is known as tiling. 

Example References that describe tiling and approaches: 
- https://penny-xu.github.io/blog/tiled-matrix-multiplication
- [lecture slides 2010](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/~bindel/class/cs5220-s10/slides/lec03.pdf) 


1. Expand SWEmu to deal with larger GEMMs using larger dimensions (large and darknet, see testbench). Validate correctness of the output.
  - If execution time is too long, you can reduce the number of iterations for the testbench.
  - You can reduce the number of GEMM calls while still going through all darknet dimensions. Just change in darknet_dims.hh the start and stop values for each layer. Adjust them so that each layer is executed twice. Pay attention that after the stop of one layer, the start of the next need to be consecutively increasing. In addition you will need to change the total number of tests in the testbench to 24 in the test runner call (see swEmu.cc L180).
3. Perform first optimization on tiling (still in SWEmu). Report on approach and improvement.
  - Improve tiling scheduling to minimize data transfers and increase reuse
  - Overlap computation and communication. While processor is working on one set of data, already load in the next set. Once processor is done, write new descriptor. 
  - Expand processor to have multiple instructions, kick off first instruction referencing to the next descriptor, fill new data. Once processor moves from 1st to 2nd, start emptying 1st and filling 3rd. 
