# 5. Darknet Integration 

This issue guides you in two steps to integration with darknet. In a first step, we will translate the SWEmu testbench into source code (creating the HAL driver). After confirming functionality, we will integrate into  darknet.

## 1. Transfer SWEmu testbench into C (C++) and write HAL driver

1. The software testbench is already prepared in `sw/gemm_tb`.
2. Develop a HAL driver for your gemm accelerator in SW. Update the `acc_driver` to use your low level driver to interface with the accelerator. When developing the HAL driver, keep in mind that Darknet is implemented in C. 
3. Validate correctness with the testbenches (small, large, darknet). 

## 2. Integrate into Darknet

1. Create a submodule for darknet using your earlier code.
2. Copy the HAL driver for your GEMM accelerator into the Darknet code structure (you can use the existing file, or add a new file). If you wrote the driver in C++, you will need to translate into C or use [extern "C" wrapper functions](https://isocpp.org/wiki/faq/mixing-c-and-cpp).
3. Call the GEMM HAL driver in darknet inside the `gemm_nn` function to perform actual GEMM processing on darknet data (i.e. driven by the float to fixed point conversion developed in lab 1). 
4. Add a `upload_data` target in the Makefile up upload the necessary data to QEMU for execution (cfg, weights, input data). 
5. Add a `upload` target to upload the darknet binary
6. Add a `arm_test` target to execute the test on QEMU an pull any result files. 
5. Validate correctness of the results. 
    - Measure the SNR against the darknet native gemm_nn floating point function (using the darknet data). For this create a temporary copy of the C matrix and call the original gemm_nn floating point function. Then call the GEMM processor with the original C matrix. Non need to use darknet's memory management. Disable the comparison code with `#define GEMM_PROC_MEASURE_SNR` to not interfere later with performance measurements.
    - Measure overall accuracy of darknet inference output against 
