# 6. Optimize Darknet and ACC 

## 1. SW/HW Performance Improvements 

1. Move im2col into hardware. Instead of im2col in SW, let the ACC do the work. Leads to a more compact representation in scratch pad. As memory bloat happens on the fly (can be done without decreasing throughput). In result, larger tensors can be operated on without increasing scratch pad size. 
2. Improve float to fixed conversion in SW (see Lab1)
3. Use a DMA for data transfers into and out of the ACC's scratch pad. This will dramaticaly speedup simulation for QEMU. Basic steps for general principles: 
    - Extend the ACC code to allow for burst transfers (bigger than len 4) from/to the scratch pad
    - Instantiate and connect the demo-dema from the [dma-demo](https://github.com/neu-ece-7368/cosim-dma-demo/)
    - Update the driver to use the DMA. For this, we will use the OCM as a buffer (as we have known physical addresses). Copy data in SW into OCM, then use the DMA to transfer to the ACC's scratchpad. See the dma-demo's driver and example for inspiration. 
4. Embed Floating to Fixed and Fixed to Float Conversion into GEMM ACC. [Example IP](https://www.zipcores.com/floating-point-to-fixed-point-converter.html). Conversion can be done transparently without increasing latency in the gemm_nn internal, all as access patterns are highly regular. This means data is stored in SRAM in float but converted on the fly (costing energy). Could expand Hardware interface to allow mixed inputs (a matrix may be in float or fixed, and convert only if in float.)
    - Next level up, convert upon read and store at reduced precision in ScratchPad (when reducing bitwidth from 32, this can lead to smaller SRAM size)
5. A more complicated, but faster alternative to (4) DMA transfer: Expand the memory in the ACC with OCM, see [cosim-dma-demo](https://github.com/neu-ece-7368/cosim-dma-demo) as an example. Add an interface to the OCM for the GEMM ACC. This expands scratch pad (and potentially leads to faster SW/HW interface as this is on the high performance bus). 
6. Let GEMM ACC fetch directly from DRAM. Same interface on hardware side as OCM. However, SW becomes more complicated. Needs to get contiguous memory in physical memory (udma buf kernel module). Also needs to deal with cache flushes. 
7. Allow multi issue of instructions in the ACC. The `InstNext` in one descriptor points index of the next descriptor. The general procedure is: 
    - ACC waits on startup in idle. Driver copies matrices, programs instruction descriptor(s) with InstNext = 0 and starts (idendical to single descriptor case)
    - ACC starts at execution at descriptor 1 (lets call it `decCur`), once completed it reads the `decCur.InstNext`. If:
    
        - `decCur.InstNext` = 0, then ACC goes to idle
        - `decCur.InstNext` != 0, then continue execution with descriptor pointed to by `decCur.InstNext` (e.g. 2)

    - Reasoning: descriptor consists of multiple individual registers. Only when all descriptor registers are valid, then descriptor can be executed. Here, writing the `decCur.InstNext` signals that the descriptor is valid (with a signle write). Note this is symmetric to the original start, where setting LSB CSR indicates that the descriptor is valid.
    - Note: Driver should check before writing that ACC is busy, and also check shortly after setting `decCur.InstNext` that it is still busy. Reasoing: there is a race condition that the ACC becomes idle in between driver checking ACC is busy and writing `decCur.InstNext`. In result the ACC would stay idle although `decCur.InstNext` != 0 as this happened after the transition to idle. In that case, driver needs to reprogram descriptor to 1st descriptor and start ACC fresh.

## 2. SW Improvements 

1. Explore possible parallelization of the processing chain to exploit any available concurrency between the GEMM running in hardware and the rest of the software running on the CPU. Refer to the instructions in Lab 1 about general parallelization hints and strategies. Note that this may require you to turn the software side into a multi-threaded application, such that a part of the processing chain containing the external GEMM calls runs in parallel with other parts of the darknet framework.

## 3. Robustness and Error Handling

1. Add error handling when descriptor is invalid:
    - address out of range
    - zero dimensions (or otherwise invalid dimensions)

